+++
title = "3D tree modeling from incomplete point clouds via optimization and L1-MST"
date = "2016-11-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Jie Mei", "Liqiang Zhang", "Shihao Wu", "Zhen Wang", "Liang Zhang"]
# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Preprint / Working Paper
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
# 7 = Thesis
# 8 = Patent
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Jie Mei, Liqiang Zhang, Shihao Wu, Zhen Wang, and Liang Zhang, “3D tree modeling from incomplete point clouds via optimization and L1-MST,” International Journal of Geographical Information Science, 31(5), pp. 999-1021, Nov. 2016."
publication_short = "*International Journal of Geographical Information Science*"

# Abstract.
abstract = "Reconstruction of 3D trees from incomplete point clouds is a challenging issue due to their large variety and natural geometric complexity. In this paper, we develop a novel method to eﬀectively model trees from a single laser scan. First, coarse tree skeletons are extracted by utilizing the L1 -median skeleton to compute the dominant direction of each point and the local point density of the point cloud. Then we propose a data completion scheme that guides the compensation for missing data. It is an iterative optimization process based on the dominant direction of each point and local point density. Finally, we present a L1 -minimum spanning tree (MST) algorithm to reﬁne tree skeletons from the optimized point cloud, which integrates the advantages of both L1 -median skeleton and MST algorithms. The proposed method has been validated on various point clouds captured from single laser scans. The experiment results demonstrate the eﬀectiveness and robustness of our method for coping with complex shapes of branching structures and occlusions."

# Summary. An optional shortened abstract.
summary = ""

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = ""

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = false

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this publication with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "publication/papers/3D tree modeling from incomplete point clouds via optimization and L1 MST.pdf"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = ""
#url_slides = ""
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#links = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}] 

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  #caption = "Image credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com/photos/pLCdAaMFLTE)"

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  #focal_point = ""
+++

